# SVMClassifier
Linear separability of a dataset implies that the data exists on a 2-dimensional plane and can be divided into two classes by a decision boundary.  But this becomes increasingly difficult if the data in the two classes is very similar that is, the data points lie too close to each other on the plane for a decision boundary to be drawn. Another possibility is that a linear classifier Is insufficient to classify the given data, in such cases, a decision boundary does not exist. Then, these two classes are said to be linearly inseparable.
Support Vector Machines (SVM) when used for classification, separate a given set of binary labeled training data with a hyper-plane that is maximally distant from them. Given a set of training examples, each marked as belonging to one or the other of two categories, an SVM training algorithm builds a model that assigns new examples to one category or the other, making it a non-probabilistic binary linear classifier. An SVM model is a representation of the examples as points in space, mapped so that the examples of the separate categories are divided by a clear gap that is as wide as possible. New examples are then mapped into that same space and predicted to belong to a category based on which side of the gap they fall.
The problem solution implemented using SVM is Heart Disease Recognition. The training data set contains several records with all the factors such as age, blood sugar levels and blood pressure readings etc. Along with this, it also contains data regarding the presence of a heart condition. The main purpose of this classifier is to predict if a patient could be suffering from a heart disease. It has been implemented using R language. R language contains a package called caret which can be used to build predictive models, neural networks, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
